# Day Trading Cheat Sheet

## Introduction

This project is a machine learning application that uses historical stock data in order to predict the closing price of a stock on a given day. It is meant to be used by day traders when the market opens in order to make predictions about the price of a stock at the end of the day so that traders can make the most efficient and profitable decisions. The purpose of this project was to experiment with machine learning and see if a model could be made using numerical data that actually made accurate predictions. Obviously, the stock market is a lot more than just numbers and is extremely volatile, so this is not the best method for analyzing stocks. However, when the model analyzes a company with a lot of historical data, it does perform fairly well. The project requires Python 3 and the packages specified in requirements.txt, which can be installed through pip3.

## Back-End

The back-end consists of a Flask application, a preprocessor class, and a model class, all written in Python. The data for the model comes from the Alpha Vantage API. The Alpha Vantage API has a limit of 5 API calls per minute, so the model can only be run twice per minute (trying to do more will result in a KeyError). The data includes the S&P 500 stock index historical data as well as the historical data for a given company. The preprocessor reads all of this data and removes the unnecessary features first. It then puts all of the data into a single, organized DataFrame and converts the data types so that they are all consistent. The model takes this data and feeds it through an input layer, several fully connected hidden layers, and then an output layer. The amount of neurons in each layer was picked after a bit of trial and error and could still be significantly improved. The user also has the option of training multiple models in order to get a more accurate overall prediction.

## Front-End/Deployment

The application has a front-end written in HTML and JavaScript that connects to the back-end through Flask. The user can submit the stock symbol of the company they want to predict stock price for, which will start up the back-end processes that invoke the Alpha Vantage API. The user is then redirected to the loading page, where they are prompted for the amount of models they would like to train, after which they begin training. The final results webpage then displays graphs of the loss and predictions made by each model after each epoch of training. In order to run the app again, the user must go back to the homepage and start from the beginning. Because I don't have a web server to deploy the application on, I have only been running it locally. The Flask server must be started by running "python3 app.py" in the project root directory. In a browser, you can then open the local host at the port specified when the server starts up to actually run the app.
